# Notes from GeoERA WP8 Data Provider Support kick off meeting
Date: 18 October 2018 15:00 CET

Attendees: GEUS, TNO, GeoZS, CGS, BRGM, BGS, RBINS

Apologies: ISPRA, GeoInform, HGI-CGS

## Meeting purpose

Main purpose of the meeting was to introduce each other, clarify our tasks for the work package and confirm which partners will work on which activities. The powerpoint used to introduce these topics is attached.

## Discussion

The following discussion points where raised:
1.	An online live resource for the cookbooks, like a WIKI, would be a preferred output format for the cookbooks rather than a PDF document. Some expressed that it should still be possible to easily create a printable copy. The ability to leave comments and feedback on sections of the cookbook was thought to be something that would be useful.
2.	In terms of task 4 and providing quick start tools and software to get people started, the view was that setting up of servers was relatively trivial and that data configuration is the hard part. This activity might be best concentrating on a suite of tools for data mapping and validation.
3.	Support desk and issues triage was discussed. It was a suggested an email for GeoERA IP queries should be set up soon. Thought needs to be given in how to manage the issues raised. Possibly they should be automatically sent from the email to an issues management system and the sender sent a thank you email with a link to their issue in the issue management system where they can track and follow up on the issue. This would give visibility to all raised issues. Potential options will be investigated by BGS.
4.	Should cookbooks just be in English language? A question raised to be considered. Perhaps video capture of actions will help provide instructions to those who don’t understand English well? Perhaps creation of such videos is an activity that would fit under the E-learning resources task?

## Partner interests

All partners described their interest/experience in work relevant to this work package and which tasks they were interested in.

GEUS: worked on INSPIRE, Minerals4EU, EUrare and many other standards related projects. Not decided yet where would like to focus their efforts on this task.

TNO: interested in supporting activities of WP4 semantic harmonisation, experience in INSPIRE service provision, Minerals4EU, data conversion expertise

BRGM: role on this project is in the containerisation task

GeoZS: had to leave the call due to technical difficulties in hearing what was being said

CGS: experience in INSPIRE service provision, Minerals4EU, metadata support. Interested in providing support for metadata services, perhaps running workshops/webinars on the topic.

RBINS: particular interested in writing cookbooks, providing help via helpdesk to users, acting as a liaison to user requirements through WP2.

BGS: experience writing cookbooks through OneGeology which would be our focus. Also providing tools in the ‘dockerisation’ task.

## Next actions
1.	WP8 representatives attending WP interaction workshop in Brussels 23rd October to better understand touch points with other WPs.
2.	All partners (especially those not able to attend telecon) to suggest which tasks they would like to work on in WP8
3.	Hold another telecon in December ready to start work properly in January (month 6 as indicated on project proposal timeline).

