GeoERA WP8 Data Provider Support meeting


Date: 17/1/2019

Attendees: GEUS, TNO, GeoZS, CGS, BRGM, BGS, NGU, RBINS

Apologies: ISPRA, GeoInform, HGI-CGS

Agenda
======

Review of actions from previous telecom on 18 October 2018 (notes attached)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Summary of progress from other relevant Work Packages : WP2,3,5
---------------------------------------------------------------

What WP8 tasks do WP8 partners want to work on?
-----------------------------------------------

Who first deliverable (M12): a functioning support network
----------------------------------------------------------

### What will this look like?

### Who will be involved in creating it?

### How will we communicate it?

### Who will monitor and manage it?

Are there any elements of the cookbooks that we are certain we will have to write without waiting for deliverables from other WPs e.g. WMS/WFS? Should we start writing these now? Can we create a list and assign a lead organisation?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AOB
---

Date of next meeting
--------------------

Minutes 
========

Review of actions from previous telecom on 18 October 2018 (notes attached)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

No comments, agreed as correct 

Summary of progress from other relevant Work Packages: WP2, 3, 5
----------------------------------------------------------------

WP2 has an initial draft document but still preliminary.

WP3 yet to start in earnest

WP5 have an initial draft document but still preliminary.

Not everyone at meeting has seen draft WP2 document. Pierre hasn't circulated to
everyone as still draft. Pierre gave a summary during the meeting. Only
potentially difficult data are 2.5+D models. Some projects have a good idea of
their science outputs, some haven't formulated these in detail yet. Example data
outputs are grids, Shapefiles, European maps etc. Hasn't decided how much to
press science projects into providing services for their data.

CGS remarked that even if the actual data are not going to be supplied there
should be metadata records about their existence created.

What WP8 tasks do WP8 partners want to work on?
-----------------------------------------------

No significant changes since last meeting.

-   GEUS (Frands): Currently writing guidelines in another ORAMA project on how
    to provide services for minerals4EU and is thinking about how to set up
    templates for learning materials. Meant to finish training materials in
    April. Should avoid duplication and contradiction so Frands will keep us
    updated with progress.

-   TNO: said that in HIKE project they are undertaking to provide outputs in
    GeoPackage format so he could write documentation on how to produce
    GeoPackage. They are only expecting to deliver a files a few times a year so
    they envisage sending the data to the central database and having central IP
    set up services.

-   BRGM: will work on containerisation.

-   GeoZS: Task 8.1. Also involved in the cookbooks for ORAMA project. Could be
    involved in cookbook writing and data provider support.

-   CGS: Will deal with metadata cookbooks and general metadata education in
    workshops or webinars. They have been working on PDF metadata cookbooks for
    Minerals4EU and ProSUM projects.

-   RBINS: same as last meeting. Will help on cookbooks and help desk.

-   NGU: weren't present at last telecom. Elissar could contribute to Task 1.
    Bjørn to task 4 working with BRGM

There was some discussion throughout about to what extent it had been decided
whether to have a central database or have different science projects providing
services. This hasn't been fully decided in detail but it seems clear that this
could be different for different providers so there will be some data going to a
central database and some providers setting up their own services (which could
be harvested). François Tertre mentioned other possible options like that being
looked at by EPOS having an index (I didn't quite follow this?) [Didn’t catch
that. Suggest delete from notes]. Also there might not just be OGC services like
WMS and WFS but other things like linked data so we may need to help users
provide data in linked data formats. Pierre said that WP2 hadn't really
questioned the science projects too closely on how they would provide data yet.
Many have just mentioned Shapefiles and Pierre isn't sure yet how much they are
going to press them to try to provide services. It seems likely that there will
be a range of options depending on the particular science project.

WP8 first deliverable (M12): a functioning support network
----------------------------------------------------------

First deliverable is a functioning support network for science projects. Edd
said we have discussed using GitHub issue tracker. It is possible to set up an
email address to send emails that will get automatically added to issue tracker
so don't have to register on GitHub. Issue tracker allows us to assign people to
support each query and see old issues. Discuss whether this sounds OK? Do we
need a phone number? No comments from other attendees.

Bjørn suggested making issue templates to cover what information should be
included. E.g. feature request / help… Can be done for those using GitHub
directly, can't get emails assigned to issue types automatically. Shall we ask
WP11 to communicate this information? Also could ask geoera.eu web site to have
a support button to link to issues and have an email address <support@geoera.eu>
set up for help desk. BGS will assign tasks that come in to different WP members
to support 

Are there any elements of the cookbooks that we are certain we will have to write without waiting for deliverables from other WPs e.g. WMS/WFS? Should we start writing these now? Can we create a list and assign a lead organisation?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Pierre thought that we should start on web services. Should we focus on one
software package or more than one? Edd suggested that might need an open source
solution and an ESRI solution. Pierre mentioned that have GeoServer, MapServer
and Deegree as examples of Open Source. Shall we just decide what we want to
support? Could build up a matrix of which software to use for which services?
Start with GeoServer doing WMS according to Pierre. Later extend to WFS, maybe
some will need WCS but not sure yet.

CGS said in 1G experience have about half geological surveys using ESRI and
about half using open source.

Will follow up meeting to define actions for each person.

CGS would provide metadata cookbooks; working on them for other projects

Will there be a single metadata catalogue? Jorgen expects everyone to use the
CGS Micka catalogue and CGS agree with that.

A.O.B
-----

None

Date of next meeting
--------------------

Sometime in March – Doodle poll to be sent shortly

Actions 
========

1.  Edd to finalise GitHub instance including use of templates for raising
    issues as necessary

2.  Edd to contact WP11 to discuss communicating its WP8 availability, creation
    of <support@geoera.eu> address, add link from GeoERA website to GitHub &
    email.

3.  All involved in Task 8.3 (BGS, CGS, ISPRA, GEUS, GEOZS, RBINS) to register
    on the GitHub instance to receive alerts.

4.  Edd/Pierre-Yves to draft a matrix of cookbook elements (e.g. WMS, WFS,
    metadata, GeoPackage) versus enabling technologies (MapServer, GeoServer,
    ESRI etc.) we know now that we will have to write. This matrix will be
    extended as WP2/3 work matures. Matrix to be circulated and organisations
    sign up to which ones they can own and contribute towards.
